KEY MANAGEMENT GUIDE - version 2014.12.19

Key Management in BBN Curveball

This document describes how BBN Curveball client keys are managed in the
spiral 8 version of BBN Curveball.  The examples are intended for use with
the standard development release within a testbed, not installations
on the Internet.

See the end of this document for a change log since 2013-09-24.

TERMS AND DEFINITIONS

    BASEDIR - the directory where BBN Curveball is installed.  If
	installed via the Debian package, this is /opt/curveball.  If
	you are running from a development build, then BASEDIR is the
	build subdirectory of you development tree (e.g.,
	$HOME/curveball/build)

    SCRIPTDIR - $BASEDIR/scripts

    MASTER FILE - the central repository for information about keys.
	By default, this is BASEDIR/auth/keys/master.km.

    KNAME - a mnemonic "name" for a key.  Most key operations use the
	kname instead of the literal key.  Knames must be unique; a
	kname must not appear twice in the master file.

    NOTE: Commands that require an effective UID of root are prefixed
	with sudo.


QUICK TUTORIAL - For NOC Operations

The "NOC" implements operations that would ordinarily be done by a
Network Operations Center, including the generation of keys and
distribution of key-related information to the other nodes.  The NOC
tools described here emulate these operations, but in a testing
framework (lacking security and integrity guarantees).

The "NOC" may be any node that has connectivity with all of the DR and
DP nodes; it may be a DR or DP node.

The devel install includes 5 active keys, with knames "cbtest0"
through "cbtest4".

CONFIGURING HOSTNAMES

Some of the NOC tools use rsync to copy data from the NOC
node to the DP and DR nodes.  They assume that the NOC, DP,
and DR nodes have been configured to allow the operator to
ssh from the NOC to the DP and DR nodes.

By default, the tools assume that the DP and DR nodes are named
using a convention than is used by our development testbeds,
but is unlikely to be used anywhere else.  To accommodate this,
the DR and DP names may be provided in a file that is passed
as a parameter to these NOC tools, via the "-f" parameter.

The format of this file is as follows:

    * Each line must begin with a comment character "#", "dr:", or "dp:" 

    * Everything between a # and the end of the line is treated as
	a comment.

    * The "dr:" and "dp:" lines each specify one DR or DP.  For example:

	    dr: xxx 
	    dp: yyy 

	indicates that "xxx" is a DR and "yyy" is a DP.  Note that a
	host can be treated as both a dr and dp. 

If a network name is specified (via the -n option) then that network 
name is added to each name in the host file.  For example, using 
option "-n example.com" would cause hostname "xxx" to be treated as 
"xxx.example.com" 

In the examples below, we omit the use of the "-f host-file" parameter
for the sake of clarity, but in ordinary deployments this flag would
be present in every invocation that pushes data out to the DRs and DPs
(i.e., any time cbnoc-keymanager is invoked with the -p flag or given
the "push" command).

EXAMPLE TASKS

    * Returning to a pristine state

	To restore things to their post-install state:

	    sudo cp $BASEDIR/auth/keys/master.km.orig \
		    $BASEDIR/auth/keys/master.km

	    sudo $SCRIPTDIR/cbnoc-keymanager push

	It may be necessary to stop and restart all of the DPs and
	DRs, or wait until the beginning of the next sentinel epoch,
	before all state is completely restored.

    * Adding a new key

	Adding a new kname results in the creation of a new key.

	There is no API for choosing a specific key; Curveball chooses
	the keys randomly.  (It is possible to edit
	$BASEDIR/auth/keys/master.km directly, but this circumvents
	most of the error checking and should not be done lightly.)

	To create a new key and update the master file by associating
	this KNAME with this new key:

	    sudo $SCRIPTDIR/cbnoc-keymanager add KNAME

	For example, to add a new key named "cbtest101":

	    sudo $SCRIPTDIR/cbnoc-keymanager add cbtest101

	Note that this only updates the master file, and does not push
	the changes to all of the other nodes.  

	Pushing the changes can be a time-consuming task.  If you have
	multiple changes to make, it is quicker to make all of the
	changes before doing a push.  It is possible to immediately
	push the changes, by adding the -p flag:

	    sudo $SCRIPTDIR/cbnoc-keymanager -p add KNAME

    * Finding the key and current status for a kname

	    sudo $SCRIPTDIR/cbnoc-keymanager query KNAME

	prints the line for the given KNAME from the master file.

    * Revoking a key

	This does not remove the key from the master file, but only
	marks it as revoked.  This prevents unintentional reuse of the
	same kname while the key is revoked.

	    sudo $SCRIPTDIR/cbnoc-keymanager revoke KNAME

	The -p flag can be used to push the change immediately, or
	multiple revocations can be batched, followed by a push.

    * View all the knames in the master file

	sudo $SCRIPTDIR/cbnoc-keymanager knames

    * View the contents of the master file

	sudo $SCRIPTDIR/cbnoc-keymanager list

    NOC NOTES:

    	* Keys are used to generate sentinels. A client uses the
	    sentinels generated by a key, not the key itself, to
	    connect to Curveball.

	* Key revocation prevents clients from creating NEW Curveball
	    connections with that key, but does not sever established
	    Curveball connections.  In the future there will be.
	    additional functionality for severing live connections.

	* If the debugging sentinel (aka the "deadbeef" sentinel) is
	    enabled, it cannot be revoked.  This sentinel is not
	    associated with any key, and therefore it cannot be
	    revoked or changed.  Note that the debugging sentinel is
	    meant only for testing, and is FORBIDDEN outside isolated
	    testbeds.

	* cbnoc-keymanager also supports rekeying a kname, and
	    unrevoking a kname.  The "unrevoke" operation is meant
	    only for testing, and is FORBIDDEN outside isolated testbeds.
	    If a key is compromised, it should be revoked and never
	    unrevoked -- it should be rekeyed, or simply removed. 

	* The operations that make a key "active" (add, unrevoke, and
	    rekey) may or may not take effect until the beginning of
	    the next sentinel epoch (by default at the beginning of
	    the next hour, or the next time the DR/DP pair are
	    restarted), even if pushed immediately.  Revocation,
	    however, happens within several seconds of a push.


QUICK TUTORIAL - For Client and User Operations

The user is given one or more lines from the master file to use as
keys.  It is the responsibility of the entity doing the key
distribution to ensure that no two users have the same keys.

For the devel/test install, each client gets a copy of the original
master file and, by default, all users are configured to use the same
key until this default is overridden.  This is not a realistic key
distribution protocol, but it simplifies testing.

    * To get a list of all knames available to the user:

        sudo $SCRIPTDIR/curveball-key-config

	Note that the client, unlike the NOC, does not use
	cbnoc-keymanager.

    * To reset the sentinel manager and drop all keys in use:

        sudo $SCRIPTDIR/curveball-key-config -c

	The -c refers to clearing the state.

    * To reset the sentinel manager and switch to using the key KNAME:

	sudo $SCRIPTDIR/curveball-key-config -c KNAME

    * To add an additional key NEW-KNAME, leaving any current keys
	in place:

	sudo $SCRIPTDIR/curveball-key-config NEW-KNAME

    * To add multiple KNAMEs, leaving any current keys in place:

	sudo $SCRIPTDIR/curveball-key-config KNAME KNAME1 KNAME2 ...

    CLIENT NOTES:

        NOTE: The BBN Curveball user MUST configure a key before the
	    client will work.  (For convenience, the startup scripts
	    provided with Curveball configure all users to use the key
	    'cbtest0'.  If you configure or startup Curveball using
	    other scripts, you will need to run curveball-key-config
	    and add a key before keys will work.

	NOTE: Repeatedly starting the client can exhaust the sentinel
	    pool, which is currently limited to 128 sentinels per hour
	    per key.  (This default can be changed, but it is awkward.)
	    The client will report when it cannot allocate a sentinel.

	    Resetting the client key configuration by removing all keys
	    and then adding the user's key will cause the client to
	    "forget" that the pool has been exhausted and create a new
	    pool.

	    For example, to return the client to the same initial
	    state with key KNAME before each invocation:

	    sudo $SCRIPTDIR/curveball-key-config -c KNAME 

	    This is INSECURE (the same sentinel may be reused repeatedly),
	    and is intended only for testing.


CHANGELOG

 * Added description of the "-f host-file" and "-n domainname" parameters
    for cbnoc-keymanager

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This product includes software developed in part by support from the Defense
Advanced Research Project Agency (DARPA) Contract No. N66001-11-C-4017. 
