DECOY HOST MANAGEMENT GUIDE - version 2014.12.19

Blacklisting Decoys in BBN Curveball

This document describes how and why to blacklist candidate Decoy Hosts
in BBN Curveball, which is a new feature introduced in spiral 6
(phase 3) of development.  The examples are intended for use with the
standard development release within a testbed, not installations on the
Internet.

This document does not provide an introduction to basic Curveball terms
and descriptions of the Curveball components.  The reader is assumed to
be familiar with BBN Curveball, including how to install and use BBN
Curveball and perform the NOC operations.

See the end of this document for a change log since 2013-09-28.

INTRODUCTION

The power of Curveball is that any host that serves a protocol that
Curveball can hijack (currently HTTPS and HTTP) has the potential to
serve as a "Decoy Host", and provide a way for Curveball users to
conceal the real destination they are accessing and the protocols they
use during that access.  In practice, however, there are reasons why
some hosts should not be used as decoys:

 - "Honey pot" hosts controlled or monitored by the adversary.  This
    includes all hosts inside the network controlled by the adversary.
    (Even if the decoy routers are all outside the control of the
    adversary, the adversary may stack their internal routing tables to
    cause routes to internal locations to be routed through ASes that
    they suspect contains decoy routers.)

 - Some hosts use different network stack parameters than the Curveball
    decoy proxies, which means that the connections may have detectable
    differences after Curveball has hijacked them.  For example, some
    hosts use a different TCP timestamp clock frequency, which means
    that the initial timestamps in the connection (pre-hijack) change at
    a different frequency than later timestamps (post-hijack) for the
    Curveball tunnels that terminate and rebuild the connection.  In a
    significant number of cases, an eavesdropper can detect that the
    clock frequency has changed, raising suspicion that the connection
    has been hijacked.

 - Some hosts use protocol variants that Curveball cannot hijack
    successfully, or cannot hijack without generating anomalous network
    traffic that could reveal the presence of Curveball user.  For
    example, some web servers only implement the HTTP 1.0 subset of HTTP
    1.1 (they accept some HTTP 1.1 requests, but respond as if the
    requests were HTTP 1.0).  Curveball will not respond to these sites
    in the way that an ordinary client would, providing an potential way
    for an adversary to detect that Curveball (or some other hidden
    proxy) is in use.

Decoy host blacklisting provides a way to inform the decoy routers that
certain hosts (or subnets of hosts) must not be used as decoys, even if
connections to those hosts contain Curveball sentinels and follow the
Curveball protocol.

TERMS AND DEFINITIONS

    BASEDIR - the directory where Curveball is installed.  If
	installed in the Debian package, this is /opt/curveball.  If
	you are running from a development build, then BASEDIR is the
	build subdirectory of your development tree (e.g.,
	$HOME/curveball/build)

    SCRIPTDIR - $BASEDIR/scripts

    BLACKLISTFILE - a file containing a list of the hosts or subnets to
        blacklist.  The format of this file is described below.

        The BLACKLISTFILE is not archived or managed in any way by the
        Curveball software.  The administrator is responsible for proper
        management of this file.

    NOTE: Commands that require an effective UID of root are prefixed
	with sudo.

CONFIGURING HOSTNAMES

Some of the NOC tools use rsync to copy data from the NOC
node to the DP and DR nodes.  They assume that the NOC, DP,
and DR nodes have been configured to allow the operator to
ssh from the NOC to the DP and DR nodes.  The tools for managing
the decoy host blacklist are among these tools.

To change the names of the hosts used as DRs, you must edit
the file:

    /opt/curveball/scripts/cbnoc-push-baddh-rem

Near the end of this script, there is a loop that runs over
all of the DR nodes according to the naming convention used
in our testbeds.  Change it to use whatever DR names you have
in your system, and make sure that invokes the push_dr function
for each of them.

In future releases, this will be make easier to configure.

QUICK TUTORIAL - For NOC Operations

The "NOC" implements operations that would ordinarily be done by a
Network Operations Center.  The NOC tools described here emulate these
operations, but in a testing framework (lacking security and integrity
guarantees).

The "NOC" may be any node that has connectivity with all of the DR and
DP nodes; it may be a DR or DP node.

    * Returning to a pristine state

        In the initial configuration, no decoys are blacklisted.
	To restore things to their initial, post-install state:

            sudo $SCRIPTDIR/cbnoc-bdh-setup /dev/null

        This should remove the blacklist (i.e., the file
        $BLACKLISTFILE) on all DRs within 10-15 seconds.

        It is not necessary to restart the DRs.

        NOTE: depending on the local permissions, this command might
        need to be run via sudo.  It should not be run as root.

        NOTE: the DR's blacklist can be updated even if the DR is not
        running; when the DR is started it will use the most recent
        blacklist pushed by cbnoc-bdh-setup

    * Blacklisting hosts or subnets

        1. Add the hosts and/or subnets to the $BLACKLISTFILE

        2. Use cbnoc-bdh-setup to compile and push the changes:

            sudo $SCRIPTDIR/scripts/cbnoc-bdh-setup $BLACKLISTFILE

        NOTE: depending on the local permissions, this command might
        need to be run via sudo.  It should not be run as root.

NOTE: There is no API for adding or removing a host or subnet: these
operations are NOT cumulative, but instead completely reset the
blacklist.

BLACKLIST FILE FORMAT

Each line in the blacklist file specifies one host or subnet that is
blacklisted. Each specification is one of the following:

 - A DNS hostname or IPv4 address

 - An IPv4 routing prefix (a DNS or an IPv4 address, a "/", and the number of
    bits in the prefix)

 - A DNS hostname or IPv4 network prefix followed by an IPv4 network mask.

The blacklist file may contain blank lines and comments (which
start with a '#' character and continue to the end of the line).
Whitespace at the start and end of each line is ignored.

A netmask of 0.0.0.0 may be used to effectively blacklist all IPv4 addresses.

For example:

        # blacklist example.com:
        example.com

        # blacklist everything on the same /24 as example.com:
        example.com/24

        # blacklist everything on the same /24 as example.com,
        # but using a netmask instead of a routing prefix:
        example.com 255.255.255.0

        # blacklist everything on 10.1.0.0/16:
        10.1.0.0 255.255.0.0    # by netmask
        10.1.0.0/16             # by routing prefix

cbnoc-bdh-setup does detect many errors, but also permits many silly
things (such as blacklisting broadcast addresses).  Do not rely on
cbnoc-bdh-setup to catch all of your errors.


CHANGELOG

2014-10-01

- Removed note about netmask of 0.0.0.0 NOT being permitted. A netmask of
    0.0.0.0 may now be used to effectively blacklist all IPv4 addresses.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This product includes software developed in part by support from the Defense
Advanced Research Project Agency (DARPA) Contract No. N66001-11-C-4017. 
